# Attendance-Management-System
https://attendance-management-system-main.vercel.app/
Aims to create a QR based real-time attendance of students per subject

Attendance Management System: Leveraging QR Code Technology for Streamlined Classroom Monitoring is a system designed to use QR technology to monitor real-time classroom activity. The system will integrate QR technology to automate and simplify the task of tracking and managing students’ attendance. Here is how the system work:

QR Code Generation: Generated unique QR codes to scan for each course and class. The codes will be generated by the use of specific software and programming tools.
Displaying QR Codes: Provides course and subjects unique QR codes that can be printed or distributed online.
Attendance Tracking: To mark attendance, Professors of Instructors will provide QR code that is either printed or on a screen. The code represents the class session of a specific time slot.
Scanning QR Codes: The students will be provided with a mobile app to use as a scanner and send the data to the database. QR scanning will be done upon entering the classroom.
Real-time Data Capture: As someone scans the QR codes, the system will record the data real-time as it will be stored in a database.
Monitoring Analysis: Professors, Instructors, and Authorized personnel can access and manipulate data in the system by the use of website integrated system to view the data from the database.
Features: The Attendance Management System will have the following features: • User Modules • Login/Signup Modules • QR Code Generation • Attendance Tracking • Reporting and Analytics • Interactive UI • Integration with Student Information System (SIS) • Mobile Application • Data Security and Privacy • Dashboards • Integration with Timetable Management

Target Users: • Students • Professors/Instructors • Database Administrators




# To Install dependencies type this commands per terminal

Terminal 1
```bash
cd ams-webapp
```
```bash
npm install
```
Terminal 2
```bash
cd backend
```
```bash
npm install
```
and in Terminal 3
```bash
npm install
```



# NPM commands to type to run frontend or backend service simultaneously or individually


To run frontend and backend service simultaneously
```bash
npm run dev
```

To run frontend only
```bash
npm run client
```

To run backend service only
```bash
npm run server
```
